blog: TPI tutorial (#3087)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2022-01-15-moving-local-experiments-to-the-cloud-with-iterative-terraform-provider.md

---
 title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Iterative Terraform Provider
 date: 2022-01-15
 description: >
   In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
   experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform Provider.
 descriptionLong: >
   In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
   experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform Provider.
 picture: 2022-01-15/massimiliano-latella-6ufBhNungOk-unsplash.jpg
 author: maria_khalusova
#  todo: commentsUrl: 
 tags:
   - MLOps
   - Iterative Terraform Provider
   - AWS

>  ---

Reviewer: Replacing lines 1-17 with this code should get the site to build correctly :)
```
---
title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Iterative Terraform Provider
date: 2022-01-15
description: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform
  Provider.
descriptionLong: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform
  Provider.
picture: 2022-01-15/massimiliano-latella-6ufBhNungOk-unsplash.jpg
author: maria_khalusova
#  todo: commentsUrl:
tags:
  - MLOps
  - Iterative Terraform Provider
  - AWS
---
```

> ---
>  title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Iterative Terraform Provider
>  date: 2022-01-15
>  description: >
>    In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
>    experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform Provider.
>  descriptionLong: >
>    In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
>    experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform Provider.
>  picture: 2022-01-15/massimiliano-latella-6ufBhNungOk-unsplash.jpg
>  author: maria_khalusova
> #  todo: commentsUrl: 
>  tags:
>    - MLOps
>    - Iterative Terraform Provider
>    - AWS
>  ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Iterative Terraform Provider
date: 2022-01-15
description: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform
  Provider.
descriptionLong: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform
  Provider.
picture: 2022-01-15/massimiliano-latella-6ufBhNungOk-unsplash.jpg
author: maria_khalusova
#  todo: commentsUrl:
tags:
  - MLOps
  - Iterative Terraform Provider
  - AWS
---
```

as per @julieg18 suggestion

There's a number of good reasons one might want to train a machine learning model locally. It's quick and easy to set up a new project on a local machine, you don't have to worry about how much money you'll spend while using this compute resource, your data may be small or you start with a sample, you may want to start with simple models initially, etc. On top of that, a local machine is just deeply familiar, as opposed to the multitude of available cloud services which can be intimidating unless you have a decent background in DevOps.

Once you set up everything locally, and iterate through your code and experiments enough times, you may come to a point where you have a need for a more powerful compute resource to train a larger model, use more data, or both. In other words, you may need to switch from training a model locally to training it in a cloud environment. If you find yourself in this situation, I hope this tutorial will help you by showing how to provision cloud infrastructure with Terraform and run your existing training script on it. 

## Getting Started

> For this tutorial I have picked [The BeeImage Dataset: Annotated Honey Bee Images](https://www.kaggle.com/jenny18/honey-bee-annotated-images) that contains 5,100+ bee images annotated with location, date, time, subspecies, health condition, caste, and pollen. I've downloaded the images, created a project and trained a simple CNN model locally to classify different subspecies. If you want to follow along, you can use your own data and training code, or clone [my repo from GitHub](https://github.com/MKhalusova/bees).

Reviewer 3: > [my repo from GitHub](https://github.com/MKhalusova/bees).

Iterative repo is better

Author: Changed the wording in 49d5c91ec296ea985f46ad51ff152a410cbecbc0. Will update the link as soon as the repo is polished and moved under Iterative.

Author: Moved the repo to https://github.com/iterative/bees 
Still private but you should have access to it.

---

> title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Iterative Terraform Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Terraform Provider Iterative
```

date: 2022-01-15
description: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning

>   experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform
>   Provider.
> descriptionLong: >
>   In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
>   experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform
>   Provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative's Terraform
  Provider.
descriptionLong: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative's Terraform
  Provider.
```

picture: 2022-01-15/massimiliano-latella-6ufBhNungOk-unsplash.jpg
author: maria_khalusova
#  todo: commentsUrl:
tags:
  - MLOps

>   - Iterative Terraform Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - TPI
```

Let's pretend that the model I trained is good enough so that I would like to
continue iterating on it in the cloud. Run more epochs? Change some
hyperparameters? Add more layers? The first question that we should ask
ourselves when we plan *The Big Move* is "what exactly are we going to need to
train this model in a cloud environment?"

Some of the important puzzle pieces you already have locally. These are:

- Your training code. It is likely that you have a whole pipeline with multiple
  stages but for the sake of simplicity, mine is just a `train.py` script.
- Data
- Python environment with all required libraries.

In addition to that you will need an account with your cloud provider of choice.
In this tutorial I'll be provisioning infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS). You can create an
AWS account yourself, or ask your DevOps team to provide you with one. Make sure
to
[store your authentication credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html)
(`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`) in your system's environment
variables. Once you do, we can start the move with the help of Terraform and the

> Iterative Terraform Provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Iterative Provider.
```

## What is Terraform?

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io) is an open-source infrastructure-as-code
tool that you'll need to [download and install](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html)
for this tutorial. With Terraform, you can create a
configuration file in which you declaratively describe what infrastructure you'd
like to have. This means that you do not need to write the instructions on what
exact steps need to be taken. Instead, you describe what your
infrastructure should ultimately look like. Behind the scenes, Terraform will
figure out what needs to be done. If you've cloned the repo,
you'll find the `main.tf`file in the root of the project -- that's where we will
be configuring Terraform.

> ## Iterative Terraform Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Terraform Provider Iterative
```

Terraform can orchestrate a plethora of various resources for you, but for the
majority of projects you only need a few. That's why instead of shipping all the
integrations in one bundle, you install a barebones Terraform distribution and
then plug in support for whatever resources you need with so-called
[*providers*](https://www.terraform.io/docs/extend/how-terraform-works.html).
For this tutorial we will only need 
[Iterative Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest).
It enables full lifecycle management of computing resources for machine learning
pipelines from AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, and more. The
Iterative Provider has a couple of advantages for machine learning pipelines.
Namely,

> - The configuration for various cloud compute providers with Iterative Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The configuration for various cloud compute providers with the Iterative Provider
```

  will be nearly identical, so you can easily migrate from one cloud provider to
  another, if you want to.
- It is designed not only to provision infrastructure but to execute your
  scripts on it too, all via a single configuration.
- It helps to sync data between your local machine and a remote one.
- Once your training is complete, the remote resources will be terminated,
  avoiding unused machines quietly ramping up costs.

To start using the Iterative Provider we need to let Terraform know about it by
adding the following in our `main.tf`:

```hcl
terraform {
    required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" } }
}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

successfully finished, go ahead and run `terraform destroy` to destroy all
remote objects managed by your configuration and sync back your shared files. If
you write metrics to a file (e.g. `metrics.json`), then you'll get the new metrics synced back to your
local machine.

Now if you want to try another experiment, you can change your code, run
`terraform apply` again, and when the training is finished, commit your code
together with the updated `metrics.json`. This can help you move from prototyping
locally to leveraging more powerful cloud machines without the hassle of full
MLOps setup. At the same time, once you're ready to start working on your
[production pipelines and CI/CD](https://dvc.org/doc/use-cases/ci-cd-for-machine-learning),
this should also make the transition smoother.

In this tutorial we have covered the simplest example with no GPU, and
one that involves leveraging GPUs with the help of a pre-configured Deep Learning 
AMI. In many cases, productionizing your workflows would require creating your own 
Docker image that you could use both for prototyping and for CI/CD workflows. If you'd like to learn

> how to create your own Docker images and use them with the Iterative Terraform
> provider, let us know and we'll write another tutorial about that!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
how to create your own Docker images and use them with the Terraform Provider
Iterative, let us know and we'll write another tutorial about that!
```

To start using the Iterative Provider we need to let Terraform know about it by
adding the following in our `main.tf`:

```hcl
terraform {
    required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" } }
}

provider "iterative" {}
```

Once you describe what providers you'll be using in your `main.tf`, run the
`terraform init` command. If you have cloned the example repo, you should run
this command before doing anything else. This will initialize your working
directory and download the required provider.

## Configuring `iterative_task`

The Iterative Provider offers a single resource called `iterative_task` that
we'll need to configure. This resource will:

1. Create cloud resources (storage, machines) for the task.
2. If specified, upload a directory to the cloud storage.
3. Run the given script until completion or timeout in the cloud.
4. Download results.
5. Automatically terminate compute resources upon task completion.

This is exactly what we need to run a model training process! Let's see how we
can configure the `iterative_task`. First, I'll show you what my configuration
file looks like, and then we'll unpack what's going on here:

```hcl

> terraform {
>     required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" } }
> }
> 
> provider "iterative" {}
> 
> resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-basic" {
>     name      = "tpi-examples-basic"
>     cloud     = "aws"
>     region    = "us-east-2"
>     machine   = "l+k80"
> 
>     workdir { input = "." }
>     script = <<-END
>     #!/bin/bash
>     sudo apt update
>     sudo apt install -y python3-pip
>     pip3 install -r requirements.txt
>     python3 src/train.py
>     END
> }

Reviewer 2: just running `terraform fmt`

```suggestion
terraform {
  required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" } }
}
provider "iterative" {}
resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-basic" {
  name      = "tpi-examples-basic"
  cloud     = "aws"
  region    = "us-east-2"
  machine   = "l+k80"

  workdir { input = "." }
  script = <<-END
  #!/bin/bash
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install -y python3-pip
  pip3 install -r requirements.txt
  python3 src/train.py
  END
}
```

---

> title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Terraform Provider Iterative

Reviewer 4: Wait so is "Terraform Provider Iterative" the official long name of the tool? I realize that's what TPI seems to stand for but once expanded it's not that readable.

In https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs it's just called "Iterative Provider" (for Terraform)

Reviewer 4: p.s. I see "Iterative's Terraform Provider" is used in the description, which is better too.

Reviewer 2: "Terraform Provider Iterative" is the official name due to Terraform's exceedingly strict naming conventions. We don't have a choice :/

date: 2022-01-15
description: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative's Terraform
  Provider.
descriptionLong: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative's Terraform

>   Provider.

Reviewer 4: Minor: Should short desc. be shorter and/or long one be longer?

From looking at https://dvc-org-tpi-tutorial-hgp3t6hg6.herokuapp.com/blog I see the short one fits well in the big post preview but will probably be truncated once it's a smaller thumbnail so I'd consider the former option mainly.

Reviewer 2: how about now @jorgeorpinel?

Reviewer 4: Like it!

you don't have to worry about how much money you'll spend while using this
compute resource, your dataset may be a small sample, or you may want to start
with simple models. On top of that, a local machine is just deeply familiar, as
opposed to the multitude of available cloud services which can be intimidating
unless you have a decent background in DevOps.

Once you set up everything locally, and iterate through your code and
experiments enough times, you may come to a point where you have a need for a
more powerful compute resource to train a larger model, use more data, or both.
In other words, you may need to switch from training a model locally to training
it in a cloud environment. If you find yourself in this situation, I hope this
tutorial will help you by showing how to provision cloud infrastructure with
Terraform and run your existing training script on it.

## Getting Started

For this tutorial I have picked
[The BeeImage Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/jenny18/honey-bee-annotated-images)
which contains over 5,100 bee images annotated with location, date, time,
subspecies, health condition, caste, and pollen. I've downloaded the images,

> created a project and trained a simple CNN model locally to classify different

Reviewer 4: Minor: "simple" here could seem slightly condescending (scary) unless the next paragraph emphasizes that the model trained on cloud will be much more complex (then it's clear what we meant).

subspecies. If you want to follow along, you can use your own data and training
code, or clone
[the example repo from GitHub](https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-bees).

Let's pretend that the model I trained is good enough so that I would like to
continue iterating on it in the cloud. Run more epochs? Change some
hyperparameters? Add more layers? The first question that we should ask
ourselves when we plan _The Big Move_ is "what exactly are we going to need to
train this model in a cloud environment?"

Some of the important puzzle pieces you already have locally. These are:

- Your training code. It is likely that you have a whole pipeline with multiple

>   stages but for the sake of simplicity, mine is just a `train.py` script.

Reviewer 4: Link "pipeline" to https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-pipelines ?

For this tutorial we will only need
[Iterative Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest).
It enables full lifecycle management of computing resources for machine learning
pipelines from AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, and more. The
Iterative Provider has a couple of advantages for machine learning pipelines.
Namely,

- The configuration for various cloud compute providers with the Iterative
  Provider will be nearly identical, so you can easily migrate from one cloud
  provider to another, if you want to.
- It is designed not only to provision infrastructure but to execute your
  scripts on it too, all via a single configuration.
- It helps to sync data between your local machine and a remote one.
- Once your training is complete, the remote resources will be terminated,
  avoiding unused machines quietly ramping up costs.

To start using the Iterative Provider we need to let Terraform know about it by
adding the following in our `main.tf`:

```hcl
terraform {
    required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" } }
}
provider "iterative" {}

> ```

Reviewer 4: Minor: Is it possible to break into more lines to avoid horizontal scrolling?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1477535/152391835-721002b5-3784-4913-afce-e62f0748dead.png)

Once you describe what providers you'll be using in your `main.tf`, run the
`terraform init` command. If you have cloned the example repo, you should run
this command before doing anything else. This will initialize your working
directory and download the required provider.

## Configuring `iterative_task`

The Iterative Provider offers a single resource called `iterative_task` that
we'll need to configure. This resource will:

1. Create cloud resources (storage, machines) for the task.
2. If specified, upload a directory to the cloud storage.
3. Run the given script until completion or timeout in the cloud.
4. Download results.
5. Automatically terminate compute resources upon task completion.

This is exactly what we need to run a model training process! Let's see how we
can configure the `iterative_task`. First, I'll show you what my configuration
file looks like, and then we'll unpack what's going on here:

```hcl

> terraform {

Reviewer 4: Maybe clarify that the code block below is the same main.tf file but edited to add the task.

  required_providers { iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" } }
}
provider "iterative" {}
resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-basic" {
  name      = "tpi-examples-basic"
  cloud     = "aws"
  region    = "us-east-2"
  machine   = "l+k80"

>   workdir { input = "." }

Reviewer 5: ⚠️ Unstable API subject to change.

Reviewer 5: Yes: anything but this. 😅

Reviewer 5: Resolving in favor of https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/3087#discussion_r863207431

>   script = <<-END
>   #!/bin/bash
>   sudo apt update
>   sudo apt install -y python3-pip
>   pip3 install -r requirements.txt
>   python3 src/train.py
>   END

Reviewer 5: It looks like this code block is using the [indented heredoc syntax](https://www.terraform.io/language/expressions/strings#heredoc-strings) `<<-` but the code block is not indented; choose one of:

### Heredoc
```suggestion
  script = <<END
  #!/bin/bash
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install -y python3-pip
  pip3 install -r requirements.txt
  python3 src/train.py
  END
```

### Indented heredoc
```suggestion
  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install -y python3-pip
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    python3 src/train.py
  END
```

Reviewer 5: Resolving in favor of https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/3087#discussion_r863207431

}

> ```

Reviewer 5: Replace by something like this; not tested:

````suggestion
```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative"}
  }
}

provider "iterative" {}

resource "iterative_task" "example" {
  cloud   = "aws"
  region  = "us-east"
  machine = "m+t4"
  image   = "nvidia"

  storage {
    workdir = "."
    output = "model.hdf5"
  }
  
  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    python3 src/train.py
  END
}
```
````

> Every Terraform resource needs a name, and mine is called `tpi-examples-basic`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Every Terraform resource needs a name, and mine is called `example`
```

Reviewer 2: we discourage manual naming altogether iirc?

Reviewer 5: Yes, you do recall correctly. This is about the resource name, not the `name` argument.

  share your whole project or parts of it with a remote machine. In my example,
  I am sharing the whole project.
- _script_ (**required)**: This is where the Iterative Provider's magic happens,
  i.e. this is where we define a script that should be run on a provisioned
  machine.

Take a look at the script. In the simplest scenario, all we need to do on a new
machine to run the training script is to set up the Python environment with
required libraries. If you simply want to train your model on a machine with
more memory, this may be enough. However, if you want your training code to
leverage GPUs, the script will look a bit different.

## Training with GPU

There are several ways you can leverage GPU devices on a remote machine. You can
install all the required drivers and dependencies "manually" via a script, you
can use an existing Docker image or build your own, or, in the case of AWS, you
can take advantage of an
[existing pre-configured Deep Learning AMI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/options.html).
In this tutorial, we'll use an AMI, as it is the quickest way to start using
GPUs on an AWS EC2 machine.

```hcl

> resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-gpu" {

Reviewer 4: Again it may not be clear that we're editing the same file here (esp. since earlier lines are no longer shown, maybe use `...`).

    name      = "ami-gpu-example"
    cloud     = "aws"
    region    = "us-east-2"
    machine   = "l+k80"
    disk_size = "130"
    image     = "ubuntu@898082745236:x86_64:Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu 18.04) Version 54.0"

>     workdir { input = "." }

Reviewer 5: ⚠️ Unstable API subject to change.

Reviewer 6: I think we're at that point; encountered an error while trying to follow along with the blog.

Reviewer 5: Yes, indeed. 😅 Take a look [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/getting-started) for working examples.

    script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    python3 src/train.py
    END
}
```

To use a Deep Learning AMI, you need to configure it via the `image` argument
that has the following structure: `{user}@{owner}:{architecture}:{name}`. You
can learn more about AMIs in the official

> [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html).

Reviewer 4: Minor: this paragraph could make more sense before the code block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The Deep Learning image that you choose may require larger disk size than the
provided default, so you may need to increase it. The image I picked (see

> screenshot above) expectes volume of at least 130 GB, and I can configure this

Reviewer 4: I don't see any screenshot.

Reviewer 4: > BTW I'm reviewing based on https://dvc-org-tpi-tutorial-hgp3t6hg6.herokuapp.com/blog/moving-local-experiments-to-the-cloud-with-iterative-terraform-provider#configuring-iterative_task

in the `disk_size` argument.

You may also notice that my script got a bit shorter. This is because I no
longer need to install Python, and only need to make sure to have my
requirements met.

## Ready… Set… Apply!

Whether you want to go with the basic example, or the GPU-enabled training, you

> can run `terraform plan` to review what steps Terraform is going to take to make

Reviewer 4: For this last section, do we need more code blocks instead of just mentioning the `terraform` commands? The blog design currently doesn't highlight them that much, they can get lost in the regular text.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1477535/152416276-6862b847-8931-46f0-9e1a-549c0d106fe5.png)

Not sure what to suggest to address this. Maybe it's OK since you're not writing about Terraform.

Reviewer 2: made into separate code blocks

---
title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Iterative Terraform Provider
date: 2022-01-15
description: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform
  Provider.
descriptionLong: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
  experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative Terraform
  Provider.
picture: 2022-01-15/massimiliano-latella-6ufBhNungOk-unsplash.jpg
author: maria_khalusova
#  todo: commentsUrl:
tags:
  - MLOps
  - Iterative Terraform Provider
  - AWS
---

There's a number of good reasons one might want to train a machine learning
model locally. It's quick and easy to set up a new project on a local machine,
you don't have to worry about how much money you'll spend while using this
compute resource, your data may be small or you start with a sample, you may
want to start with simple models initially, etc. On top of that, a local machine
is just deeply familiar, as opposed to the multitude of available cloud services

> which can be intimidating unless you have a decent background in DevOps.

Author: I feel that this is a stylistic choice and would prefer to leave it the way it is.

ourselves when we plan The Big Move is what exactly are we going to need to
train this model in a cloud environment?

Some of the important puzzle pieces you already have locally. These are:

- Your training code. It is likely that you have a whole pipeline with multiple
  stages but for the sake of simplicity, mine is just a `train.py` script.
- Data
- Python environment with all required libraries.

In addition to that you will need an account with your cloud provider of choice.
In this tutorial I'll be provisioning infrastructure on AWS. You can create an
AWS account yourself, or ask your DevOps team to provide you with one. Make sure
to
[store your authentication credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html)
(`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`) in your system's environment
variables. Once you do, we can start the move with the help of Terraform and the
Iterative Terraform Provider.

## What is Terraform?

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io) is an open-source infrastructure as code
tool that you'll need to download and install with [homebrew](https://brew.sh/)

> for this tutorial: `brew install terraform`. With Terraform, you can create a

Author: Resolved in 49d5c91ec296ea985f46ad51ff152a410cbecbc0

configuration file in which you declaratively describe what infrastructure you’d
like to have. This means that you do not need to write the instructions on what
exact steps need to be taken and in which order. Instead, you describe what your
infrastructure should ultimately look like. Behind the scenes, Terraform will
figure out what needs to be done to achieve that. If you've cloned the repo,
you'll find the `main.tf`file in the root of the project - that's where we will
be configuring Terraform.

## Iterative Terraform Provider

Terraform can orchestrate a plethora of various resources for you, but for the
majority of projects you only need a few. That's why instead of shipping all the
integrations in one bundle, you install a barebones Terraform distribution and
then plug in support for whatever resources you need with so-called providers.
For this tutorial we will only need one provider -

> [Iterative Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest).

Author: Resolved in 49d5c91ec296ea985f46ad51ff152a410cbecbc0

It enables full lifecycle management of computing resources for machine learning
pipelines from AWS, as well as Azure, Google Cloud Platform, and more. The
Iterative Provider has a couple of advantages for machine learning pipelines.
Namely,

- The configuration for various cloud compute providers with Iterative Provider
  will be nearly identical, so you can easily migrate from one cloud provider to
  another, if you want to.
- It is designed not only to provision infrastructure but to execute your
  scripts on it too, all via a single configuration.
- It helps to share data between your local machine and a remote one.
- Once your training is complete, the remote resources will be terminated
  preventing the situation when an unused machine is left to ramp up the costs.

To start using the Iterative Provider we need to let Terraform know about it by
adding the following in our `main.tf`:

> ```

Author: Resolved in 49d5c91ec296ea985f46ad51ff152a410cbecbc0

provider.

## Configuring `iterative_task`

The Iterative Provider offers a single resource called `iterative_task` that
we'll need to configure. This resource will:

1. Create cloud resources (storage, machines) for the task.
2. If specified, upload a directory to the cloud storage.
3. Run the given script until completion or timeout in the cloud.
4. Automatically terminate compute resources upon task completion.

This is exactly what we need to run a model training process! Let's see how we
can configure the iterative_task. First, I'll show you what my configuration
file looks like, and then we'll unpack what's going on here:

```
terraform {
    required_providers {
        iterative = {
            source = "iterative/iterative",
        }
    }
}

provider "iterative" {}

resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-basic" {
    name      = "tpi-examples-basic "
    cloud     = "aws"
    region    = "us-east-2"
    machine   = "l+k80"
    directory = "."

    script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt-get install -y software-properties-common build-essential python3-pip
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt

>     python3 src/train.py

Author: Agreed that having `software-properties-common build-essential` doesn't make a difference, and it's save to remove it. Removed in 406a3cec9ca1bc771fdad3a6a879df5f9fc54a79

    END
}
```

Every terraform resource needs a name, and mine is called `tpi-examples-basic`
here. This name is only used within the configuration file and it can be
whatever you want. Inside of the resource block, we specify the resource
arguments:

> - _name_ (**required**): this is a name that will be used to set up the cloud

Author: Resolved in 49d5c91ec296ea985f46ad51ff152a410cbecbc0

complex.

## Training with GPU

Setting up the environment to leverage GPU devices is a bit involved as you need
to make sure you have the required drivers, NVIDIA-docker, and CUDA.

```
resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-gpu" {
    name      = "tpi-examples-gpu"
    cloud     = "aws"
    region    = "us-east-2"
    machine   = "l+k80"
    directory = "."

    script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt-get install -y software-properties-common build-essential ubuntu-drivers-common
    sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall

    sudo curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh && sudo sh get-docker.sh &&
    sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu
    sudo setfacl --modify user:ubuntu:rw /var/run/docker.sock
    curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/gpgkey | sudo apt-key add -
    curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/ubuntu20.04/nvidia-docker.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nvidia-docker.list
    sudo apt update && sudo apt install -y nvidia-docker2
    sudo systemctl restart docker
    rm get-docker.sh

    nvidia-smi
    docker run --rm --gpus all -v "$PWD:/tpi" iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1-gpu \

>         /bin/bash -c "cd /tpi; pip install -r requirements.txt; python src/train.py"

Author: Unfortunately in your suggestion, GPU isn't used, the training happens using CPU because some libraries are not found (probably related to CUDA). I can try to experiment and make it work without Docker, but it might get rather complex.

>         /bin/bash -c "cd /tpi; pip install -r requirements.txt; python src/train.py"

Reviewer 2: It's worth it to remove the Docker complexity from this blog. Nicer to leave Docker for a follow-up post.

In terms of how to install CUDA here just do it the same way we do for the CML docker image?

We base it on [cuda11.0.3-ubuntu20.04-base](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/11.0.3/ubuntu2004/base/Dockerfile) + [runtime](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/11.0.3/ubuntu2004/runtime/Dockerfile) + [cudnn8](https://gitlab.com/nvidia/container-images/cuda/-/blob/master/dist/11.0.3/ubuntu2004/runtime/cudnn8/Dockerfile)... defines all the `apt` packages needed. You'll also likely need:

```bash
ENV PATH /usr/local/nvidia/bin:/usr/local/cuda/bin:${PATH}
ENV LD_LIBRARY_PATH /usr/local/nvidia/lib:/usr/local/nvidia/lib64
```

>         /bin/bash -c "cd /tpi; pip install -r requirements.txt; python src/train.py"

Author: Addressed in b0443d1e629d77d7b44cf9b3c9f444f80629913a by switching to using an AMI

    END
}
```

> 
> Here, to run my training code I am passing my project's directory as a volume to
> a Docker image provided by Iterative (`iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1-gpu`) which
> takes care of CUDA.

Reviewer 2: assuming removal of docker complication...

```suggestion
```

Author: Resolved in b0443d1e629d77d7b44cf9b3c9f444f80629913a

## Ready… Set… Apply!

Whether you want to go with the basic example, or the GPU-enabled training, you
can run `terraform plan` to review what steps Terraform is going to take to make
your desired infrastructure materialize. Don't worry, nothing is actually done
at this point, but it's a good way to check for potential issues in the
configuration.

If there are no issues, run `terraform apply` to execute the actions proposed in
the Terraform plan. You'll need to type `yes` to confirm that you indeed would
like the plan to be executed.

At this point you can get a cup of your favourite beverage, and let the
Iterative Provider work its magic together with Terraform. They will allocate a

> remote machine for you, set up Docker, pull required images, install missing
> drivers, and finally run your `train.py`. Once the script finishes, the machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
remote machine for you, install missing drivers, set up dependencies,
and finally run your `train.py`. Once the script finishes, the machine
```

Author: Resolved in b0443d1e629d77d7b44cf9b3c9f444f80629913a

will be terminated.

You can monitor what's going on by running
`terraform refresh && terraform show`. Once you see that the task has
successfully finished, go ahead and run `terraform destroy` to destroy all
remote objects managed by your configuration and sync back your shared files. If

> you write metrics to a file, then you'll get the new metrics synced back to your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you write metrics to a file (e.g. `metrics.json`), then you'll get the new metrics synced back to your
```

local machine.

Now if you want to try another experiment, you can change your code, run
`terraform apply` again, and when the training is finished, commit your code

> together with the updated metrics.json. This can help you move from prototyping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
together with the updated `metrics.json`. This can help you move from prototyping
```

locally to leveraging more powerful cloud machines without the hassle of full
MLOps setup. At the same time, once you're ready to start working on your

> production pipelines and CI/CD, this should also make the transition smoother.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[production pipelines and CI/CD](https://dvc.org/doc/use-cases/ci-cd-for-machine-learning),
this should also make the transition smoother.
```

> In this tutorial we have covered the simplest example with no GPU or Docker, and
> one that involves leveraging GPUs with the help of `nvidia-docker` and
> `iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1-gpu`. In many cases, the next step in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we have covered the simplest example without and with GPUs.
In many cases, the next step in
```

Author: Resolved in b0443d1e629d77d7b44cf9b3c9f444f80629913a

adding the following in our `main.tf`:

```hcl
terraform {
    required_providers {
      iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" }
      }
}
provider "iterative" {}
```

Once you describe what providers you'll be using in your `main.tf`, run the
`terraform init` command. If you have cloned the example repo, you should run
this command before doing anything else. This will initialize your working
directory and download the required provider.

## Configuring `iterative_task`

The Iterative Provider offers a single resource called `iterative_task` that
we'll need to configure. This resource will:

1. Create cloud resources (storage, machines) for the task.
2. If specified, upload a directory to the cloud storage.
3. Run the given script until completion or timeout in the cloud.
4. Download results.
5. Automatically terminate compute resources upon task completion.

This is exactly what we need to run a model training process! Let's see how we
can configure the `iterative_task` in the same `main.tf` file. First, I'll show
you what my configuration file looks like, and then we'll unpack what's going on
here:

```hcl
terraform {

>     required_providers {
>       iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" }
>       }
> }
> 
> provider "iterative" {}
> 
> resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-basic" {
>     name      = "tpi-examples-basic"
>     cloud     = "aws"
>     region    = "us-east-2"
>     machine   = "l+k80"
> 
>     workdir { input = "." }
>     script = <<-END
>     #!/bin/bash
>     sudo apt update
>     sudo apt install -y python3-pip
>     pip3 install -r requirements.txt
>     python3 src/train.py
>     END

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  required_providers {
    iterative = { source = "iterative/iterative", version = ">= 0.9.9" }
  }
}
provider "iterative" {}

resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-basic" {
  name      = "tpi-examples-basic"
  cloud     = "aws"
  region    = "us-east-2"
  machine   = "l+k80"

  workdir { input = "." }
  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install -y python3-pip
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    python3 src/train.py
  END
```

  share your whole project or parts of it with a remote machine. In my example,
  I am sharing the whole project.
- _script_ (**required)**: This is where the Iterative Provider's magic happens,
  i.e. this is where we define a script that should be run on a provisioned
  machine.

Take a look at the script. In the simplest scenario, all we need to do on a new
machine to run the training script is to set up the Python environment with
required libraries. If you simply want to train your model on a machine with
more memory, this may be enough. However, if you want your training code to
leverage GPUs, the script will look a bit different.

## Training with GPU

There are several ways you can leverage GPU devices on a remote machine. You can
install all the required drivers and dependencies "manually" via a script, you
can use an existing Docker image or build your own, or, in the case of AWS, you
can take advantage of an
[existing pre-configured Deep Learning AMI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/options.html).
In this tutorial, we'll use an AMI, as it is the quickest way to start using
GPUs on an AWS EC2 machine.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An AMI can be selected using the `image` argument using the format
`{user}@{owner}:{architecture}:{name}`. See the official
[AMI documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html)
to learn more.
```

```hcl
...
resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-gpu" {

>     name      = "ami-gpu-example"
>     cloud     = "aws"
>     region    = "us-east-2"
>     machine   = "l+k80"
>     disk_size = "130"
>     image     = "ubuntu@898082745236:x86_64:Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu 18.04) Version 54.0"
> 
>     workdir { input = "." }
>     script = <<-END
>     #!/bin/bash
>     pip3 install -r requirements.txt
>     python3 src/train.py
>     END

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  name      = "ami-gpu-example"
  cloud     = "aws"
  region    = "us-east-2"
  machine   = "l+k80"
  disk_size = "130"
  # see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html for images
  image     = "ubuntu@898082745236:x86_64:Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu 18.04) Version 54.0"

  workdir { input = "." }
  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    python3 src/train.py
  END
```

subspecies, health condition, caste, and pollen. I've downloaded the images,
created a project and trained a CNN model locally to classify different
subspecies. If you want to follow along, you can use your own data and training
code, or clone
[the example repo from GitHub](https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-bees).

Let's pretend that the model I trained is good enough so that I would like to
continue iterating on it in the cloud. Run more epochs? Change some
hyperparameters? Add more layers? The first question that we should ask
ourselves when we plan _The Big Move_ is "what exactly are we going to need to
train this model in a cloud environment?"

Some of the important puzzle pieces you already have locally. These are:

- Your training code. It is likely that you have a
  [whole pipeline](https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-pipelines) with multiple
  stages but for the sake of simplicity, mine is just a `train.py` script.
- Data
- Python environment with all required libraries.

In addition to that you will need an account with your cloud provider of choice.
In this tutorial I'll be provisioning infrastructure on Amazon Web Services

> (AWS). You can create an AWS account yourself, or ask your DevOps team to

Reviewer 2: idk - https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/guides/authentication#amazon-web-services is in the tip below

tutorial. With Terraform, you can create a configuration file in which you
declaratively describe what infrastructure you'd like to have. This means that
you do not need to write the instructions on what exact steps need to be taken.
Instead, you describe what your infrastructure should ultimately look like.
Behind the scenes, Terraform will figure out what needs to be done. If you've
cloned the repo, you'll find the `main.tf`file in the root of the project --
that's where we will be configuring Terraform.

## Terraform Provider Iterative

Terraform can orchestrate a plethora of various resources for you, but for the
majority of projects you only need a few. That's why instead of shipping all the
integrations in one bundle, you install a barebones Terraform distribution and
then plug in support for whatever resources you need with so-called
[_providers_](https://www.terraform.io/docs/extend/how-terraform-works.html).
For this tutorial we will only need
[Iterative Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest).
It enables full lifecycle management of computing resources for machine learning

> pipelines from AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, and more. The

Reviewer 5: TPI _is not_ Kubernetes, although it _does_ support it to the same extent as public clouds.

but it's a good way to check for potential issues in the configuration.

If there are no issues, run

```
terraform apply
```

to execute the actions proposed in the Terraform plan. You'll need to type `yes`
to confirm that you indeed would like the plan to be executed.

At this point you can get a cup of your favourite beverage, and let the
Iterative Provider work its magic together with Terraform. They will allocate a
remote machine for you, set up the environment and run your `train.py`. Once the
script finishes, the machine will be terminated.

You can monitor what's going on by running

```
terraform refresh && terraform show
```

Once you see that the task has successfully finished, go ahead and run

```
terraform destroy
```

to destroy all remote objects managed by your configuration and sync back your
shared files. If you write metrics to a file (e.g. `metrics.json`), then you'll
get the new metrics synced back to your local machine.

Now if you want to try another experiment, you can change your code, run
`terraform apply` again, and when the training is finished, commit your code
together with the updated `metrics.json`. This can help you move from

> prototyping locally to leveraging more powerful cloud machines without the

Reviewer 5: 🤖 🤦🏼‍♂️

> prototyping locally to leveraging more powerful cloud machines without the

Reviewer 5: > _[The reason for the unreason to which my reason is subjected, so weakens my reason that I have reason to complain of your beauty.](https://es.wikisource.org/wiki/Don_Quijote,_Primera_Parte:_Cap%C3%ADtulo_I)_

Yes, too many machines to explain a simple task. There are machines involved, of course, but we can merge the duplicate ones to avoid confusing users with a thousand different machine [epithets](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Epithets_of_Greek_deities).

---
title: Moving Local Experiments to the Cloud with Terraform Provider Iterative
date: 2022-01-15
description: >

>   In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move a locally run machine learning
>   experiment to a remote machine on AWS with the help of Iterative's Terraform
>   Provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Tutorial for easily moving a local ML experiment to a remote cloud machine
  with the help of Iterative's Terraform Provider.
```

For this tutorial I have picked
[The BeeImage Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/jenny18/honey-bee-annotated-images)
which contains over 5,100 bee images annotated with location, date, time, subspecies,
health condition, caste, and pollen. I've downloaded the images, created a
project and trained a simple CNN model locally to classify different subspecies.
If you want to follow along, you can use your own data and training code, or

> clone [the example repo from GitHub](https://github.com/iterative/bees).

Reviewer 2: I wonder - should we have a repo naming & topic convention? Maybe:

repo name | repo [topics](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/classifying-your-repository-with-topics) | description
--|--|--
`example-*` | `demo`, `docs` | used in official docs
`blog-*` | `demo`, `blog` | used in blog posts
`course-*` | `demo`, `course` | used in official courses
`test-*` | `demo`, `test` | debugging & CSE

Alternatives names & topics which are also inconsistently used include `demo`, `learn`, `eg`, `intro`, `scenario`, `lesson`.

Repo [topics](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/classifying-your-repository-with-topics) make it easy to find/filter repos and are probably more important than repo name. [iterative topic:example](https://github.com/iterative?q=topic%3Aexample&type=source) lists only one repo atm :cry:

There are ~150 repos in total and it's quickly getting impossible to keep track.

/CC @jorgeorpinel @iesahin @shcheklein @flippedcoder @mnrozhkov

Reviewer 7: I began to believe having a dedicated Github organization like `iterative-examples` might be a better approach for the example repos. We can fork an example repository to a new name, modify it and use in a blog post/document. At least the fork lineage becomes trackable that way, and we can keep the tags, READMEs and whatnot. 

Personally, I like the current approach better, but planning them centrally and building them with a script (like `example-repos-dev`) seems not scalable when teams have deadlines to meet.

Author: 1. I believe this is a discussion that needs to be had elsewhere so that the decision isn't lost in the comments to a particular PR.
2. I moved the repo under Iterative as requested, however, if we want to create a plethora of content with examples, having all example repos under Iterative is not sustainable. In my opinion, the examples for the official course and documentation (if needed) should be under Iterative. Everything else - examples for blog, talks, workshops, meetups, and so on are fine to be under personal accounts. These are meant to be temporary.

Author: @shcheklein After I transferred the repo to Iteartive, I no longer have access to its settings. Please rename however you feel appropriate and I'll update the link in the blog post.

Reviewer 8: done! https://github.com/iterative/blog-tpi-bees

Author: Thanks! Updated the link in b818609d7accb5befc43f0b20477793c426955c5

Reviewer 2: Follow-up ticket at #3151

machine to run the training script is to set up the Python environment with
required libraries. If you simply want to train
your model on a machine with more memory, this may be enough. However, if you
want your training code to leverage GPUs, the script will look a bit different.

## Training with GPU

There are several ways you can leverage GPU devices on a remote machine. You can install all 
the required drivers and dependencies "manually" via a script, you can use an existing Docker image 

> or build your own, or, in the case of AWS, you can take advantage of an existing pre-configured Deep Learning AMI. 

Reviewer 2: probably should link to choices in docs

```suggestion
or build your own, or, in the case of AWS, you can take advantage of an
[existing pre-configured Deep Learning AMI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/options.html). 
```

Author: Fixed in f866dac126e9303660ce02c1934a4bc215360d49

In this tutorial, we'll use an AMI, as it is the quickest way to start using GPUs on an AWS EC2 machine.

```hcl
resource "iterative_task" "tpi-examples-gpu" {
    name      = "ami-gpu-example"
    cloud     = "aws"
    region    = "us-east-2"
    machine   = "l+k80"
    disk_size = "130"

>     image     = "ubuntu@898082745236:x86_64:Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu 18.04) Version 54.0"

Reviewer 2: could we use latest/20.04? And one of the base images (without conda)? Something with a smaller disk size requirement?

Author: Why? That doesn't really change anything in regards to the example on how to use TPI.

Reviewer 2: may potentially reduce spin-up time?

Reviewer 2: purged, using `image = "nvidia"` now

    directory = "."

    script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    python3 src/train.py 
    END
}
```

To use a Deep Learning AMI, you need to configure it via the `image` argument that has 
the following structure: `{user}@{owner}:{architecture}:{name}`.
You can learn more about AMIs in the official 
[AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html).

> ---
> **NOTE**
> 
> One way to find a suitable AMI, is by searching in AWS Console: 
> ![AMI Catalog](/uploads/images/2022-01-15/AMI_catalog.png)
> 
> Alternatively, you can use search for AMIs using [`aws ec2 describe-images` CLI command](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/usingsharedamis-finding.html#usingsharedamis-finding-cli) with some filters, 
> e.g.: 
> ```
> aws ec2 describe-images --image-ids=ami-0476bba883df7cca6 --region=us-east-2
> ```
> ---
> 

Reviewer 2: we could delete this bit to make it shorter in light of the previous comment linking to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/options.html? Otherwise sounds a bit like the post is mostly talking about AWS AMIs.

```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed in f866dac126e9303660ce02c1934a4bc215360d49
